Hello, hello, everybody. Welcome to the weekly Blender Oriented CG Cookie Stream. Today is
a free stream. We usually reserve those for citizen members, but try to do a free one
occasionally. And this one also being the first genre of artist study, as I'm calling
it, figured it would be a good thing to make free, and so that is available to anyone and
everyone. Yeah, so welcome to this artist study on the artist name as Beeple. I have been super
excited about this. I think has the record for the furthest out scheduling of a live stream. It's
been it's been available. Oh no, I have an echo. That's not good. Oh, I'm sorry. My
bad. So I was playing the stream as well, my fault. Hopefully that's that's solved now.
Let me know in the chat if that's solved. That was my fault. But yeah, so I had I had the idea
months ago and reached out to Beeple to ask if I could use his artwork and on the stream and he
very kindly generously said yes. Okay, cool. It's glad to see that's fixed. Awesome. And so
thank you Beeple. If you ever see this, I appreciate you letting us do this huge fan,
which will be definitively proven by the end of this by the end of this stream. But
yeah, so Beeple, let's let's let's talk about why we're going to be learning about Beeple.
Beeple is Mike Winkleman. And here's a stat sheet of source of sorts. He's an American digital
artist and designer. He specializes in abstract art, VJ loops, which, you know, like music that
has visual aids kind of that, you know, loop, and that's kind of VJ loops. I'm not, I haven't
ever done those, but didn't know if anyone else needed that explained. Concert graphics, I've
heard him say in a, in a presentation that he's done concert graphics for Katy Perry, and one of
one of her tours, he's done album art for Imagine Dragons. So you've maybe even seen
some of his art before. He also does these things called every days, which is one of his
maybe biggest claims to fame in that for over 10 years now, he's done a daily image from start to
finish. Every single day, he's not missed a single day. I've heard him say that even on the day that
his, his child was born, he managed to do an every day. And so that means like, we'll look at the
math, but he has thousands, nearly 4,000 images in his portfolio on top. In addition to everything
he does professionally, which I couldn't find a ton of information aside from the Katy Perry and
Imagine Dragons stuff, just because I couldn't find like a LinkedIn or, or a traditional resume, but
he, he's a very successful artist and his every day is alone. That's what we're going to be focusing
on primarily today. And I think we can glean a lot of information out of those. But, you know,
as far as tools, he uses Cinema 4D and Octane primarily. And, you know, that's just kind of a
stat. We're a blender crowd here. And so at this point in 2018, you know, it's not terribly, you
know, significant, which software is used software is advancing so much. And we all know how powerful
Blender is. All of these things can can, can be all these techniques that we study about people
can be achieved in probably whatever software you choose. A quick question from William,
did his computer ever break? I don't know, he's got to have the highest end workhorse computer
given how how he renders like really intense things like a lot of reflections and caustics. So
he's got to have a really good computer. Who knows if it's broken. I mean, that would not be
not be surprising at all if it has, but I don't know. I did. I tried to be very quick with my
communication. I feel like he's a big deal. I didn't want to, you know, badger him with with
requests. So anyway, so he's very proficient at modeling, shading, lighting, compositing,
procedural animation, basically everything in the 3D pipeline, composition at an artistic sense.
And I put voice. That's just that's how I describe someone who uses their art to speak,
to convey an idea. He's very good at that. And I feel like that's necessary to put in the stat sheet
because so often 3D artists lack a voice, you know, often it's just the the art of recreating
something. It's it's not so much conveying something or expressing something from from
yourself. And so he's very good at that as well. And his portfolio is massive. As I've talked about
his every day's alone means he has about 4000 images. It's huge and not just not just images
like like I probably have 4000. I don't know if that many like work in progress, you know,
like halfway done models or here's today's progress compared to tomorrows and whatever.
These are like start to finish in like like pieces of art basically. So he has it's massive.
As far as I know, he works alone. He's I mean, especially with his every day is like that's
just him. And he's an absolute powerhouse in that sense. So whatever, you know, this is a resume,
like, let's actually look at some of his work at this point. And yeah, okay, so being a free stream,
if this is your first time here, or if you're a member of CD Cookie, this is this this environment,
this format is great for asking questions and getting pretty much immediate feedback. So if you
can, we got a fairly primitive system in the chat. If you could like add a prefix of like question,
like the word question in all caps, or a Q or something to let me know that it's a question,
because otherwise I'm just looking for a question mark and I can get confusing. But
anyway, yeah, so that's how you can ask questions. I'm going to try and keep an eye on that so we
can interact and stuff. But the first thing I want to do is just let his work speak a little bit.
And we'll go over to his website, just people crap.com. He's got a pretty
interesting personality. I love, I love how expressive he is and blunt about things. But
you'll probably see that if you start following him, which I highly recommend. So here we can see
like he's got, he's got these films, he's got VJ clips, and then every day's and resources and
things like that. But the first thing I ever saw about people that I knew was his work was this
zero day short. So I'm going to play a little bit of that and, and let do that do some talking.
Again, it is the first thing I ever heard or saw from him. So let's just take a moment and watch a
bit of that. For the past few months now, the nation's top military, intelligence, and law enforcement
officials have been warning Congress and the country about a common cyber attack.
Another weapon added to the arsenal and cyber warfare.
We have entered into a new phase of conflict in which we use a cyber weapon to create physical
destruction. A battle is waging across the internet.
One hundred and forty cyber attacks on U.S. companies.
Thirty million lines of code.
Because it's U.S. considers it an act of war. Well, the messages don't mess with us.
But what struck me is the fact that he was a single artist and he, the quality of modeling,
quality of texturing, shading, lighting, compositing, composition, and animation on top of
all that, that he's doing that as a single artist. Obviously, like it was a staff pick on Vimeo.
He's got a few staff picks. So super impressive work. And that hooked me on him. And I started
looking him up and then got onto his everyday work. But before we get into there, you know,
like check out some of his like VJ clips. I find them mesmerizing. If we, if we go look at those
real quick, I just also on top of being like static images, which is what his every days are,
like he still does animation on top of that. And being a generous guy like these are creative
commons. He says you can use them for anything commercial or non-commercial if you happen to
be a VJ. But just for visuals and knowing if you've been doing 3D much, like, you know that
animation kind of separates men from the boys in a way. And so to see some of these
videos, just to be honest with you, he's one of my favorite kind of people.
Yeah, he's good.
Also, he's gonna go on and on. And you've also seen his name's Midge on Twitter. He started
doing some similar things with Blender, like these looping abstract animations. And no doubt
he's been inspired by people. But yeah, just trying to give you a feel for like what quality
of work people does before we get into the meat and potatoes of his every days. But yeah, check
this stuff out. It's super cool. And now let's get to the everyday aspect of it. So on his everyday
page, you can see he's got a consecutive day counter 3,990 consecutive days of making an image
from start to finish. And before we dive into those, let's go back to the presentation. I can't
really try to remember the order of this stuff. Okay, yeah, so why are we going to study people?
Hopefully some of that's clear now with the introductory video that I showed you and an
idea of his work. But hello, Joaquin, I see you in there. The audio of the webpage is much
louder than the mic. So we can't hear you talking. Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Let me turn that down.
I shouldn't be playing anything more with sound, but I apologize for that. I don't think I said
anything terribly important during the music. But yeah, okay, I'll turn that I'll turn that down
since it was recommended. So all right. Yeah, so a few reasons why I want to study people,
why he's had such an impact on me and why I want to convey that to you guys as well,
is to appreciate abstract 3d art. I have my entire career I've never appreciated abstract or modern
art in a sense. Because the way that I've been thinking about it is often I feel like when I
was in New York looking at Jackson Pollock's whatever it is where he likes, you know, splattered
paint all over the wall, like it was very difficult. I actually got very angry sitting in that room
looking at that painting with all these people gathered around. And, you know, there is such
an honor about this piece. And it made me angry because, you know, it almost came at the expense
of being like technically proficient, right? Because my three year old can splatter paint on
a wall, like there's not a lot of arguably from my perspective, not a lot of technique behind that,
even though it's it's clearly an expression of the artist, it's like only expression without
technical proficiency. And so because of that, and being a 3d artist, I think maybe you guys,
if you are as well, you can relate that everything in 3d is so complex, right, from modeling to
texturing, dealing with UVs, getting into shader node networks, creating procedurals,
generating animation, rigging, all these keyframes that you have to add, there's nothing simple
about computer graphics. So when that is my primary medium, it makes me a harsh critic of,
um, yeah, shots fire, it does make me a harsh critic of things that don't look like they take
technical proficiency, require technical proficiency. So whether it's short sided, it probably is,
I'm not, I'm not objectively the truth on this by any means, but I've never appreciated abstract
art. And then I discovered people and discovered how he is, you'll clearly see so proficient as a
3d artist, but also a gifted abstract artist that seeing the two of them combined drastically
changed my opinion of abstract art. And to my, and also my perception of being around 3d art and
forums and, and, and online places that showcase 3d art, there's not a as much abstract stuff
happening as there is, like character art, or vehicle modeling, like realism, mainly realism
and stylistic, you know, cartoony type renders, that's, that's everywhere. And those are great,
but it also lended to me maybe not appreciating abstract, because you don't quite see it that
often. So hopefully, if that's, if I'm gauging this room as well, maybe some of you share those
opinions. And there's a lot of techniques. So yeah, okay, already have a fan of Nathan. And,
and yeah, I use that as an example. Again, I'm not the truth on that. That's just always been my
opinion. And maybe people transforming me, I can look back at Pollock and have more appreciation
for that. And, and modern art in general. You have possibly emphasized the word wrong, sure,
like modern art, abstract art, my apologies. Maybe I'm at whatever, like, hopefully you get
an idea of what I'm talking about. And you will throughout the presentation. But I would love
for you guys to, for people to inflame an appreciation for abstract art if you don't
already have one. And then, all right, so from the technical standpoint, as 3d artists, I want you
to take away a learning of how complex, high quality, visually impressive 3d art can be
accomplished quickly and efficiently. That's what's important here. Being everyday pieces,
he is accomplishing this stuff. I think I've heard him say within an hour to three, four hours,
like a fairly short amount of time given how impactful the work is, and he's doing it every
day in addition to like professional things. So that means if we can dial into what he's doing,
tap into it and glean stuff from it, then our workflows can adopt some of those techniques,
and we can hopefully work quickly and more efficiently, while also producing more visually
impressive things. And with that in the similar vein, I hope that we can be challenged and
inspired by what is possible, because as we get into his work, as you're aware of how many
individual images he has, and you'll see in coming up like the quality of those images,
you might, you might question like how is this possible that he has done this, you know, like
he's super human or something. He's a crazy gifted artist or something like that. We've had
people mentioning in the chat like are asking like did he really not miss a day? Like is this
consecutive? Is that legit? And yes it is, but it means we should be inspired by it,
by what is possible, because we have to admit like he is a human just like us. And so that's why
we should be motivated, challenged and motivated, inspired to adopt some of his techniques.
All right, so I did not mean to flare up any kind of modern art debate or anything,
but I don't know have fun with that, I guess, if you want. All right, so next how to study people
that I tried to come up with some categories that would hopefully make this a little more
organized and digestible for you. And one of them being the, or I've got five, so the amount of detail
to me that's kind of like an entry fee into 3D graphics like impressive quality. If you
end up below that threshold and you don't have enough detail, the whole thing kind of falls apart
and I don't even want to take it to your show kind of a way. That's what amount of detail is and it's
it can be surprisingly difficult to achieve that detail. It always has been in my book, my experience.
And so that's one way we're going to look at him, the amount of detail he's able to achieve
again in a short time, the use of repetition. So he does this very intelligently and I taught
a, I think it was a short course about creating these mailboxes and it kind of hit on that idea
about if you can repeat things as long as you're smart about it and you alter it slightly in a way
to like create a more visually complex image while not ruining it with repetition that breaks the
illusion. So anyway, Beeple is a great example of using repetition and it not breaking down the
image negatively at all. Also, we're going to look at the mastery of his shading, lighting and
treatment. Initially, I use the word compositing, but my hunch is that he's not compositing in the
sense of breaking an image into multiple passes and then combining it in a compositor. I feel like
he could, he's probably getting it 75 to 90% all the way there in the 3D render and then doing
treatment on top of that, adding lens flares and altering color tones and things like that.
That would be my guess. So I swapped out the word for treatment or swapped out composing for
treatment, but those, those three things are like the, in my opinion, like the trifecta of
polishing an image and while it may seem less important than what is done in 3D, a lot can happen
in that, in that stage of the three shading, lighting and treatment in that they all like
is the marriage and kind of they inform each other. All right, so then we have abstract elements.
So he, being an abstract artist, we talked about that already and I find it intriguing how he,
how he does that. And we're going to look at that and how he, how the abstract elements,
they just have this hypnotizing effect on me more so than any other, any other artists I've seen,
especially in recent years. And so I'm fascinated by that. You can, you can just get a lot out of
these abstract concepts and stuff. So we're going to talk about that. And then finally,
the unique styles. I've not seen many people break their own conventions and be able to
nail certain styles or a variety of styles and not just repeat themselves over and over and over
again. In that way, we're going to, we're going to look at that and consider how he, how he changes
up the styles. Okay, so we're going to look at it, we're going to look at several images, several
is an understatement. We're going to look at a lot of his artwork because again, we have 4,000
images to choose from. It was actually very difficult for me to limit it to just a few and
okay, question from William. Let's see. Let's see. I don't see a question, William. Oh, is it possible
to make non abstract art fast? Yes, William. Let's see, that was your question right here.
Yes, we absolutely, one of his styles, one of people's styles is he does achieve photo realism
in my opinion, like he achieves that in some of his every days, probably a lot of his every days.
And he actually, one of the interesting things about his abstract stuff, a lot of it is that
it will, he'll like plop a glowing sphere in the middle of like a photo realistic scene. There's,
there's very believable reflections and refractions going on and lighting, but then he just throws
the sphere in the middle of the image. And all of a sudden, they're like the level of interest
just like shoots up and it's such a simple thing. And so I consider that abstract, but it's in a
very believable and I use believable because, you know, his stuff like, you know, there isn't
necessarily a world that looks like his or rocks don't curve like his. So in that way,
it's not a photo, but everything about it, besides that the shading quality, the lighting,
the rendering all looks photo real. So yes, you can totally do photo real and people as someone
to study how to do that quickly. And the last thing, remember, look through all of this through
the lenses of he does this every day in a few hours, right? Just consider that.
If you're like me and it takes a week to model like a single character,
this guy's doing a much more impressive work, in my opinion, in just a few hours. So
let's start work looking through. Well, actually, I have them in the presentation.
All right, let's start in category number one, the amount of detail.
Um, the way I've described this earlier as kind of the entry fee to being taken seriously as a
3D artist, especially if you want to be like a believable 3D artist. And that is detailed, the
the level of the level and complexity of things happening visually in the scene. And
another way that I think of it is like, it makes me, it makes me feel that if I zoomed
in further to the image, there would be more information there. Even though that might not
be true, he's creating the illusion that there is more there. And, and as an artist myself,
I've often run into the limits of that and realizing like, Oh no, my texture, my textile
density of like a texture resolution of like 4k pixels, 4096 by 4096, it kind of breaks down after
a certain place. And that limits me. And so in that ways, I've felt the limitations of detail.
And even though I consider it like an entry fee, it can be harder to achieve than you think.
And he always gets this, he always nails the detail. I mean, in several ways, like he does it
in models, he does it in texturing, he does it in lighting. And lighting isn't terribly
relevant in this particular image, but we will have some coming up. But like, look at the model
quality, the geometric quality of detail, we have like big cubes with these kind of greeble
effects, whether that's a texture, whether it's a displacement, something, a lot of detail in the
bigger shapes. But then we have tons of these little rectangular shapes scattered throughout,
some of them reach like spec level of scale. And so that gives me the impression. And it's very
impressionistic, right? Like the more we study this, the more we break it down, we can see
how he does it. But like when I first see it, my initial reaction is like, I blow right past the
detail problem, like this is detailed enough, I go right past it, and I continue enjoying the image
compared to if you don't have enough detail, if your texture breaks down, and we see the
pixelation, or if your geometry has like, you know, rigid edges from not being subdivided enough,
that will break down the image and can ruin the experience can at least threaten the
experience of looking at the image. And so in this way, like he nails it, he's got so much detail
going on. These like pipes and whatever it is, scaffolding, like random stuff, like it's very,
very fine. And that suggests to me that I can zoom way in and see a lot more. But anyway, so that's
the first image to illustrate like detail quality. This one here, this one is less on the model and
more on like a lighting, wait, wait, it's actually less on texturing detail and more on the concert
of lighting and modeling. So with the lighting sense, how he gets detail out of lighting is he's
got let's count 123 times 12345678, he's got 24. That's three times eight, right? Yeah, 24 individual
light bulbs fluorescent light bulbs in these x shapes. And so that illuminates plenty of light.
But what's cool about it is in the in the walls over here, it adds a lot of light sources that
can be reflected. So there's a lot of opportunity for reflection to be caught on on the surfaces.
Now that the models on the sides are are fairly detailed, you know, we have trim and and like
they look like some sort of cathedral doors, you know, that kind of style. But the material,
if you really look at it, it looks like a very standard baseline, reflective glossy shader,
right? There doesn't look like any kind of grime breakup. But it doesn't need that because the
lighting when it's reflected in here, along with a geometry or across the surface of this
level of geometry, there's just a lot happening. It's creating that level of detail where we don't
question that we we just believe it and we're in into the image enjoying it. There is some texture
detail which he always manages to do, putting like a a grimy or some level of tileable texture on the
floor that breaks up the reflections really nice. And this is no exception, we see it in there.
But besides the floor, there looks like very little texture information and all the detail
is achieved with lighting and geometry. Sorry, let me see if I've been missing any,
I haven't been missing some questions. Let's see here.
Beeple is 2d only. Correct, this does not involve any 3d at all. Oh, no, he's he's only
he's only 3d for the most part. Aside from some early years in his every days, like he's
pretty much exclusively 3d. But that's probably been answered at this point.
Let me look for a couple more questions.
Let's see from char. Is that who was asking the question? No, sorry, I just saw a question.
Okay, so from Joaquin, he uses a lot of kit bashing in libraries for complex models.
That's not a question either.
Question, Beeple creates an entire work of art every day, or just hits the drawing board every day.
It's an entire work of art according to him start to finish, he creates it. That doesn't mean that
he doesn't have like a library of models that he sources or textures and things like that.
But like, he starts with a blank scene and then creates something new every day.
Question, is there anyone else that has done every day's or is Beeple the only brave one?
I don't know of anyone that's done every day's anywhere close to 10 years.
That is nuts if you think about it. Like, imagine what happens in a week and how many
things get in the way of your art and what you want to do in a week. I mean, I have a kid now.
And so does Beeple. My kids like eliminate a lot of free time and at least zap the strength,
the mental strength to like want to stay up an extra hour in the middle of the night to be able
to do a piece of work or something. So it's crazy that he did it for 10 years, that he's done it
and he's still going. He's almost done with his 11th year. Let's see. How can that image be done
in one day? That's not possible, right? Like, that's that that's what that's the initial
impression like this crazy how he's been doing this. All right, question, will you be breaking
down his approach to texturing Photoshop the way he achieves photorealism? No. I mean, I'm gonna
touch on some of those subjects. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna like, yet, I'm in this stream,
I'm not going to like show you how how I would go about it. I do want to if this, you know,
people like this stream and like this stuff, I do want to do a stream where I try to mimic some
of his techniques and create an image in like a two hour span, something, you know, that incorporates
all these techniques. I do want to do that. It's not going to be today. Today is just strictly
looking at his work and analyzing it. But I don't know how much he goes into Photoshop. I think he
uses. Well, it doesn't matter, I guess he does in some program he image editing, he does like,
he must do some like tonal changes in the color, add some noise, change, add like,
you know, vignettes or something like that. I imagine so anyway. Sorry, there's kind of a
lot of questions. Hopefully I'm caught up. All right, cool. I think I'm caught up.
I think I'm caught up for the most part. Okay, cool. So let's get back into the detail. I've got
at least another image. Okay, yeah, this is what I thought was so interesting is is like him using
lighting to detail the scene. Like for me, I always think of geometry prime primarily like make your
model complex. That's how you achieve detail. And then the next layer is like make your textures
complex. And then if you get those two, you know, lighting will be easy and all this stuff.
But like in this image, for example, all the geometry probably has very little shading
information. It's not really even that complex. The the most detailed thing in the scene is is
lights like all these glowing bits in the windows, the lamps, he's got a variety of colors, small,
big, you know, you name it, there's there's a ton of lighting sources of light sources in this scene.
And so as the backdrop, like that really details the scene, it feels like a night scape of a city,
it feels it just it achieves that threshold, in my opinion, of of like a believable detail level.
And then on the right side, as if you weren't convinced by this, on the right side, he's got
kind of a framework building or framework structure. And there is a lot a decent amount of
detail in that geometry. But he's got a glowing red light, maybe potentially a couple different
lights, this blue one, perhaps, inside that structure. And so he gets these these volumetric
rays that are broken up a lot by that geometry. So the volumetric rays have a lot of detail.
The fact that the light is internal to the structure, it highlights some areas that like
illuminate some faces. And then there's a contrast dark shadows on the other side. So there's just
a lot happening in the image because of the way he sets up the lights and the geometry.
And there's not really much texture or shader work that needs to be done as far as the structures.
But again, you know, he's always diligent to put a highly detailed texture on the ground plane.
And, and yeah, all all this to illustrate just the quality of detail that entrance fee into,
I believe this as a 3d artist, especially, like you've sold me on the detail. And
let's see another question
from Wilco Wilbrink. Do you think he reuses older models to speed up his every days? I do,
I think for sure. If he's been doing, if he's been doing these for 4000 4000 days, like,
you know, character models, for example, like, why would you need to build a character from scratch,
like just save him and reuse him and make composable, like store that. And then you see
that evidence of that when he has characters involved in his artwork. But I think like,
I mean, think about he does cityscapes. So like types of buildings, fire escapes, lamp posts,
like why in the world would you do that multiple times? He's probably got a massive library of
models that he's either built, potentially he's bought. There's enough evidence in his modeling
that if he buys his models, you know, buys a bunch of models, like, I don't hold that against him,
like he's clearly a talented modeler. But yeah, at this point, like he should have a huge library
of models that he reuses. And that's something I want you to take away. Like, that's not a knock
against against him or anyone who reuses stuff. I think there is this kind of misconception that
and I can sense it. I've been there too, like, if I want, if I want to give like the proper
devotion to a character, I've always got to start from scratch, like sculpt him from a ball,
always model the ear again, always model the hand, the nose, like always model these pieces
individually. And that's just silly, right? It's not efficient. Once you've done it once,
you have the chops. Once you've done it once, twice, whatever, you have chops, and reusing
those pieces, nothing wrong with it whatsoever. It's actually very smart. It's what enables,
it's one of the things that enables him to make such complex, impressive imagery as often as he
does. So this use of repetition, duplicates, we just talked about this, they're rampant, right?
They're all through his images. But they don't break down the image he's uses and very intelligently.
And so I, for, I guess, fun, like in the presentation, can you spot the repeats, right? So this,
this little bracket piece, which I think I took from right there, clearly they're being duplicated
around this, this radial shape around the lip. But if you keep looking, they're also duplicated
inside the cylinder, all the way down. Okay, so these, these look like the exact same piece,
if I'm not mistaken. And so there's an element of duplication. But there's an art in hiding the
repetition. And I think in this particular image, these outer brackets are illuminated by a bright
white light. And so the color looks more white. And, and when you look a little closer, inside,
these are darker, and they are much darker gray. And to me, that didn't read in immediately as a,
as a repeat. But there's a slight context shift that hides it pretty well. And, and once you
study it, obviously, you break it down, you can see these things. But the point being that the
most important thing is the initial impression. And I did not, these, these repeated pieces did
not break down the image for me. And hopefully they didn't for you either. But yeah, so the art
of hiding repetition, slight alterations, applying in different contexts, so that's the lighting in
this example, repeat deflectors, that's not necessarily relevant in this particular image,
but in, in, in subsequent images, it will be in enough variety. So that's another thing I wanted
to talk about. So if you have, let's say he approached this scene with like, with four or five
different kind of pieces that he repeated around, I think that that you can get away with four or
five individual pieces that you duplicate. So we have the brackets, we've got just a generic cylinder
shape, we've got these kind of scaffolding this, this radial scaffolding all the way around the edge,
we have these little, I don't know, rivets or small holes, like, these are various pieces that
he's duplicating around, including the secondary part of the bracket, like this piece that attaches
to the outer hull. That is a unique piece that I don't necessarily see duplicated. But when you
have enough variety, it hides the repetition pretty well. If he only had two pieces and he
duplicated everything around those two pieces all the way around, that would probably be much more
noticeable. But he doesn't do that. He does it very intelligently. He has enough variety. And
let's see the next one. I love this image. But obviously, it doesn't take you long to realize
that this is a duplicate piece of geometry, like the array modifier that's just extruded,
that it's duplicated all the way down the hallway, and then twisted, right? So the twist
adds some visual interest. It breaks up the monotony of the repetition. That's kind of that
slight alteration idea. Also, these repeat deflectors. I think this is a really crucial
part of his repetitious workflow. And these to me are unique objects that drastically can change,
can like throw a kink in your recognition of the repetition. And the lights in here in particular
are doing that for this scene. He's got just two lights off kilter from each other, right?
They're offset. And so what that serves to do, they're facing towards us, and all the repeats
going backward can fade into black, basically, right? So like, those are unique. That's a unique
context going back behind the lights. And now going forward, all of these duplicates are illuminated
in slightly unique ways. Number one, because the whole corridor is twisted. And number two,
the lights are offset from each other. And so one light is illuminating certain aspects of the
left side. And then the upper light is illuminating certain aspects of the other. And that creates
enough difference, enough variety, even using the exact same geometry. And if we break it down,
just how exact the geometry is, you know, he's duplicating, he's mirroring from top to bottom,
right? So starting about here, and over to the middle, like this cross section,
this little L shape, he's mirroring it vertically and horizontally. So he's done,
even though it looks super complex, he's not done that much modeling. And it starts to make
sense like how he was able to do this in a couple hours. And then the repeat the repeat deflector
idea, it's not hard to throw a lamp in there, right? Like that's much easier to throw a lamp,
offset them, and then you get a variety of reflective quality. It's much easier to do that
than try and model more. And and so in that way, I find that repeat deflector idea really powerful
for breaking up the repetition and just making this a complex, pleasing image that you can lose
yourself to, and not check out because of the repetition. Let's see. Any other questions that
I'm missing from William is octane particularly fast, I've never used octane, I've heard it compared
to cycles pretty well. So in my general understanding, they, they do, they're very similar render
engines, that's not to say that octane is fast. I mean, think about it, like if he spends two to,
okay, maybe I should also say, I don't imagine that he's doing the render time within that two
to four hours, right? I would say that he's creating the whole 3d scene, it within two to four hours,
and then rendering overnight, right? Because he renders them fairly big, they're very clean
renders, especially when he gets into the caustic stuff, that that does not render quickly. And so
I believe that he renders overnight or whatever, and I don't count that against him,
you know, like how, by how quickly he's creating the imagery. But I mean, cycles would be able
to render this overnight, no problem. And whether octane can do it super fast, he also might have
a GPU, I think I've heard him say he has a GPU, which enables him to render faster, certainly
than me, only on CPU, for example. But I don't know, I would challenge you to fight the urge to
focus on the tools. Again, it's 2018, Blender has a good reputation of a quality software, like,
I really just don't, I don't even, I don't think people would say it's without a doubt the tools,
right? I don't think he would give the credit to that. In fact, I feel like I've heard him say that
in a, in a pre one of his presentations, but I don't think the tools are not important here,
that's not the main thing, it's more his technique, you know, like all all all render engines at this
point have nice glossy reflections and GI based lighting and volumetrics and stuff like that.
So the tools are not what's important here, it is absolutely the technique. Next. Okay, this is,
I think this is the last repetitious one. Okay, so this little capsule with the human inside of it,
to me that if you just isolate the capsule by itself, that's, I can imagine that taking like
an hour, hour and a half to create like to model the this human character he uses in multiple
images, we'll see another one where he uses the human this human like musculature anatomy model.
So he reuses that he throws that inside of it, and then duplicates the entire thing
across the scene. So we have three main duplicates. But then we also see a few in the background.
But he rotates the duplicates, right, so we so we can assume that as he models around the object,
he's, he's varying the model quality, so that when he rotates it, it could arguably be a different
capsule or something, at least unique enough so that it doesn't look like a 100% duplicate.
You can see that the lighting is a little different on the bottom side here, compared
to over here, that implies that he it's different, you know, based on where in the circle, like the
details at. That's an effective way to duplicate, rotate and get more, more bang for your buck.
And surprisingly, the more I studied this, I was like, Oh, wait, he didn't even change the pose of
the character, like they're all in the exact same pose. Whereas he's clearly has that guy rigged,
I would have assumed he like moved the characters arms a little bit made him a little unique.
But I don't think he did. So maybe he's just running out of time. It didn't even affect me,
I had to study the image to realize that. So in that way, like he's succeeding in hiding the
repetition, the difference in lighting, right? So you can break up repetition that way, he's
got a strong key light from the left side, we can see from the blue glow. And then a more subtle
light on the right side down here, another different color blue. But but but then he has
probably just a plane on the top and bottom that serves it with this texture to break it up. And
when you break it down, like I hope you're getting that it is it's doable, right? It is doable in
that amount of time. He's only human. So he's just very, very good at at 3d production, very good,
very talented at that. But he's not able to do what would take someone 10 hours in two,
you know, just just like doing the exact same workflow. He's just working super cleverly.
And in a way that hopefully motivates you inspires you to to adopt some of these techniques.
Question, when do you when you zoom in, you see grain, do you think it's because of the
insufficient amount of samples? Or is it a deliberate use of grain? That's a good question
that I've wondered myself because there is often grain. And and we'll see a little bit later that
he also does photography. And if I recall, there's generally grain in the photography too. So there's
a stylistic reason for grain. But also we know as 3d artists, there is a practical reason for
grain, not having enough samples. And in this case, we see grain, particularly in the volumetrics.
So maybe that had some grain. But like, it's also it's very clear in the the ground and the ceiling.
So like, it could serve as like, what am I trying to say, dust particles in the in the volumetrics.
So I think it's probably a mixture of both. It's probably some render sample limitations.
And as well as a stylistic thing, because you do see grain a lot in his images. And
and they don't ruin it. You know, it's another way that they don't taint the image, I don't look at
it and be like, ooh, you should have added more samples. No, it's not that way at all.
I think Omar, I think you're, I think you're poking fun at me.
But we'll see any other questions I'm missing.
Okay, so from Khalil, it's great images, but it seems he copied ideas from science fiction movies.
There's absolutely a science fiction theme running. But keep in mind, we've looked at like
four or five images out of 4000, you're going to see a lot more coming up. He's he's he is not guilty of
of staying in his box. He he does a lot of things. So just just hold on a second,
you'll see a lot more. Not to say that he absolutely probably is inspired by science fiction movies,
but he's also inspired by 70s era stuff, 80s, 90s kind of things. Just just hold on a second.
I like renders where I like renders that are photorealistic, except without noise or lens
imperfections. Okay, so then you might not like that about people like he he utilizes lens imperfections
and lens flares and obviously noise. I like that stuff. I think it does come down to a
preference. I like seeing that in photographs that I take, I like seeing that in my renders.
I just think it it's a subjective thing. But I think clean renders are often boring, personally,
but this just comes to a personal thing. But I like the way people handle it. But I understand
people not liking it. Alright, so that's it for repetition. Now the mastery of shading and lighting
and treatment. The benefits of this is that you can require you can get more out of your models
than you might think, right? There's less pressure on the models to be to carry the mantle of detail
or carry the mantle of visual impressiveness. And in this artwork, in my opinion, is a great example
of if you really look at it, the model is probably three or four different types of like
cathedral tower shapes that is duplicated around and around to create this this castle, you know,
like there's a I forget the name of it, there's a famous place I think in Europe that that has a
castle like like structure on a rock and the tide comes up and then you can't get to it and the tide
goes down and you can walk to it. Anyway, I forgot what it's called. If anyone knows, let me know.
But anyway, like he's created whoops, he's created this shape by probably duplicating from what I
can see, like if you look, there are duplicates, that's that's a duplicate of this one. This cathedral
shape is let's see if we can find another duplicate of that. Man, like yeah, I think he's just
duplicate them smaller in here. Here's another okay, yeah, you see the the spire with the round ball,
here's a spire with the round ball. Anyway, they are just repeats, but they don't even have that
much texture information, if any at all, it looks like a gray model, if you really look closely at
it. And then he duplicated that entire castle structure threw it in the background, rotated it
so that we have, you know, this lone spire or lone tower on the opposite side as it is over here.
So he's got a lot of geometric information quickly. And then how he breaks it up and makes it makes
it appealing to look at is the the shading and lighting treatment. So look at the the water
ripples, right? This is something he uses a lot. Add a plane with some water ripples and some reflection
and you get a ton of visual interest on the bottom side of your image, right? And that's all it is,
it's super simple. The terrain looks like maybe some texture that he he probably reuses that he
does a lot of terrain. But there's little to no texture information on there. Within the castle
structure, there's a lot of lights placed that are illuminating both from below, like you can see
it illuminating up the side of the of the buildings. And the variety in the lighting
makes that model much more than it probably is, you know, there's, you're getting a lot
more out of those models. So so yeah, things to look at in this vein are like the fog, he uses
that a lot atmospheric fog that creates a depth to the image. And then these other ones don't really,
well reflections in general, in addition to just being water ripples, you'll see him use reflections
a lot, just to multiply the level of detail. And let's see, let's go to the next one.
Question from Omar, do you think that people style is an example of composition triumphs
overall? You know, I, I was trying to think of how to address that specifically, the whole
compositional aspect. So he we know he does photography, well, we can see that on his website.
So he's got compositional understanding through photography. And in the every days he's talked
about like his his goal with them is to improve as an artist and to learn new things and literally
practice making perfect and shown to the world for everyone to see. And so he's said that he wants
to work on like certain years, you know, he'll want to improve specific aspects of his workflow.
And I know composition is, I'm just not as composition to me is still more of an ethereal
concept. So I don't, I know enough to, to know when I enjoy a composition, I don't know enough to
like break it down specifically. So that said, I do think given how long people has been working on
this, working on his skills, he is a compositional, a compositional, a significant compositional
artist, and you can look to him for inspiration and for valid approaches to composition. I just
don't know how to break it down. And that's a little on me. I'm trying to learn more about
composition, but it's not my strong suit. Let's see. Hello, Jeff, don't be afraid to use Photoshop.
Yeah, amen. Amen to that. And the treatment aspect, super important and super, super useful.
Okay, so yeah, we have from from Thibault Burton, great composition to basic shapes,
triangles, mostly rules of third. Yeah. So you might probably know more about composition than me.
Could you study Ray Renante Martinez? Yeah. That's another thing I want to maybe suggest
at the end. If anyone else has suggestions for artists to study in later streams. Yeah,
I'm open to those suggestions. How did he do the rainbow flair? I think Oh, right here is what I
think you're talking about. Well, if it were me, I don't know exactly how he did it. But if it were
me, you can you can Google search lens flares, right? Well, let's let's do better than Google search.
Let's create search dot creative commons dot org. So this is where I like to find, especially
flicker I find has gives the most results. But let's look up lens flare. And since these are CC
copyright, I'm sorry, I'm creative commons, like you can use this for for basically anything. But
usually you'll find lens flares taken with a black background. Let me let me change the
wording maybe it's going to be hard to extract it out of here. But like so if you could extract it,
let's say that's where your rainbow flair is coming from. I've done this a lot. So I forget
where what what search terms I use specifically, let me try a different one. Well, this example
kind of failed. But that's weird. I've done this many times where yeah, I'm not sure why I'm not
finding them. Maybe I had to search somewhere else. Let's try one more. And then we'll get off of this.
No, it's yeah, it's not it picks a day. Yeah, that's it.
Let's just try flair.
Oh, lens flare alpha, that's a good one.
Or internet's kind of struggling.
Well, I'm sorry I did not I'm gonna I'm gonna go on but unfortunately. Okay, there we go.
Ah, man, I'm coming up. Okay, here's an example. This is not specifically the rainbow color that
you're talking about. But this is an is an image that can be added with the ad operation over top
of an image over top of your render. And you've got, you know, the lens effects and you can dial
in how much you want. This is another one. It's maybe not super high quality. But here's another
kind of poor quality one. This is how you go about it. It is how I would go about it in the
case of people. And he uses them pretty subtly. But I think it's just an image that he pastes over
top of this image, right, and does it as an addition kind of thing. It doesn't need to be
super complex, you know, like he's not getting actual lens flares in the render camera. But yeah,
that's kind of how he does it. I'm certain. I'm fairly certain. Does people have any image that
took him a week to make if they're only days work? Imagine if he puts more time? Well, yeah,
that's a good point because he does professional work too. Obviously, he's doing work for
like, you know, Katy Perry's concert visuals. So he's probably not doing that in a day. He's
probably spending weeks on that stuff. And the short film I showed you, I imagine that took a
while, not just a day. But yeah, we're even though we're just studying on the on the every
day is like that's kind of what I want you to get out of it that what is possible in an every day
scenario. Just type JJ Abrams, that's pretty funny. Yeah, good call. Okay, cool. All right,
so we're back on the the mastery of shading, lighting and treatment. Back to this image. Okay,
yeah, so the geometry in this image registers to me as nothing to write home about. It's not
super detailed. It's all very harsh edged, right? It doesn't look like anything is is modeled for
smooth like like a subdivision surface modifier. But there's enough detail to register as buildings
and it also helps that most of the buildings were looking at at almost parallel angles. So it kind of,
you know, if the buildings were like this, you can see the detail more bluntly. But if you if you
rotate like this, the detail kind of compounds on top of each other, all that to say it's making
it look more complex than maybe I think it is. And then on top of that, look at the amount of
light sources that are in the scene. We've got something pink coming from somewhere. I don't
really know, maybe maybe there's a sign, you know, the logic is a sign above this this the screen,
the frame, that's like casting this pink light. We've got light coming from inside a window,
that makes that makes sense. We've got another pink light on the back, back wall, which is very
simple. So it kind of illustrates like how simple the geometry is, a green light somewhere in there,
purple light. So all of these different lights make for a much more interesting unique image. And
that is him, I would guess like playing with light and just showcasing like how powerful it is,
and how when you don't have to spend so much time on the model, it's going to be easier to let the
light do a lot of this visually interesting work. Again, like always, there's a grunge texture,
there's some sort of high resolution texture on the ground that breaks stuff up. You know,
he's got a rock model that he just threw in there, duplicated it rotated around probably scaled.
Maybe you did that procedurally, like we could do that with particles and just stick it to a surface.
And let's see anything else in here. There's not really volume metrics, he typically does have
like a glow around his light sources. And that really does help to sell this super bright
impression of the lights. And I imagine that that is a post process, it's part of the treatment
that he adds that. Let's go on to the next one. This one to me is just a straight up
architectural visualization image, where all the geometry is very, very simple,
you know, primitive, very simple. There's a even a simple texture, a tileable, you know,
wood like texture, maybe a concrete sort of texture, but very, very short work he's made of
the modeling and of the texture work. But it's the lighting and it's the quality of the global
illumination that illuminates this entire space. That makes things interesting, right? So he doesn't
just leave the corner of the room here as a big square, he like throws in some angled structural
bits, right? And all of a sudden we've got interesting shadows happening. And how simple
is it just to duplicate these pieces around. And then the balls of glass, the glass orbs,
like there, that's one of an abstract element that's just there to, I think add visual interest,
I don't know, there might be a meaning behind it. But what that is cool for is it takes everything
behind it and distorts it in a unique way, and then displays it to you on the other side.
And so that adds visual interest, adds levels of detail. And because of the shading and lighting,
especially this image just shines metaphorically and literally. So this is a really cool image,
I think it's photo real, in my opinion. So whoever was asking it, like doing photo real images
quickly as well. And let's see, so this is the last one I believe on material and lighting.
What my face is drawn to my face, my eyes are drawn to being a 3d artist is the quality of
the reflections on the floor. I love a good grunge breakup of reflections, it just makes
all the colors dance and vary themselves in really unique ways. It's very tangible, right?
Like I can feel in my with my fingertips, like what the grime is like on the ground. I don't
know, I just love the quality of that texture. And it's quite simple to add. You know, you can find
grunge and grime textures on the internet very simply. Now that's pretty much all it is. It's
just a plane and he's he's he's procedurally adding, I assume procedurally like these the
wireframe on the on the ground plane, like we know how we can do that with the wire modifier.
And so if you think about it, the only complex thing in the image is happening
right here in the middle. So he's got some sort of fracture modifier that that blender, you know,
the blender's equivalent sort of thing that has broken the big simple sphere and like makes all
these shards of geometry that he's also scattered on the ground a little bit. And I think he's probably
added a material like we can see evidence here of various colors just glowing, emitting off of
the various shards. And that creates this very rainbowy, like prism type appearance. And that's
where all the details happening and he and he gets extra mileage by the reflection on the ground.
You know, like reflection, the idea of mirroring the detail that's already in the scene. And so
tons of visual candy happening right in the middle of the image. But then if you think about it and
look outside, the ground plane, very simple, it's not hard to do this wireframe business, you know,
it's not time consuming rather. And then a very simple terrain in the background.
The majority of this sphere is just a simple sphere, a sky texture. And all of that, I think,
makes you focus into the image into the center of the image with these two people. And, and just in
the compositional sense, like draws you into where most things are happening. But it also makes it,
when you realize how simple the rest of the scene is, it kind of makes sense how it's achievable
within a few hours. So anyway, I really want to showcase and point to the fact that he is a master
of these technical skills, shading, lighting, treatment. He's a very good modeler too. He's
doing simulation, breaking, you know, fracturing this object. He is not, he is not shirking any
technical skills in order to create this imagery. He's just, he's a master at it. And therefore,
he knows how to, how to milk everything that the skills can give you. And he, he milks it and he
gets the most out of it. And in a short amount of time too. So really, really powerful use of,
of shading, lighting and treatment. See if I'm missing any questions.
Here we go. Could we make something at CG Cookie to spend a week doing a Beeple challenge?
L a Beeple contest, that would be awesome. That'd be fun. I, I, if I'm, if I'm honest, I would love
to see some more abstract things being posted to the gallery. Not that there aren't examples. There's
some really good examples of that already from an artist that I'm blanking on the name, but who
does it in Blender. But yeah, that'd be cool to see more of this for sure. A contest specifically,
you know, we've, that, that word always gets thrown around with us. And we do have a contest
format on our website. But the big problem is just trying to get somebody to run it. Like we've
got so many, so many balls that we're juggling right now that contest is just not able to fit
in our, in our priority list. But that would be sweet to do a Beeple challenge. Maybe we can start
a thread in the forum and just, you know, do it casually or something. Let me see if I'm missing
any other questions. Question, do you think it's basic emission on those poles or something more
complex shading? I think you're talking about this image here. You know, I'll bet I would
bet it's either a cylinder or a plane. The reason, actually, I'll bet it's a cylinder because a cylinder
will still render when it's glowing like that. It'll, I think he, let me, let me back up and
calm down. I think it's a cylinder for practical reasons because a cylinder will emit light in
all directions, you know, in a vertically all directions horizontally. But when you, when you
render it, it looks just like planes, right? And I would guess that that's the appearance he wanted,
just these simplistic 2d planes. But for practical reasons, like, you know, if you think of adding
an area light, just a plane, there's a harsh line that happens where the backside and the front side
illuminate, but right on the edge, it doesn't illuminate. So that's what makes me think he's
probably doing a cylinder. That would just make the most sense to me. All right. So yeah, mastery
of shading and lighting and treatment. The abstract elements, I love this part. This is,
this is a very mesmerizing part of his artistry, in my opinion. And why it's so unique to me and
new to me is my history is kind of in realism, especially like make it match reality, be a
little creative in that, but mostly limit yourself to what is possible in reality. Whereas like this,
this image right here, I love the idea of like ignore reason and just make something glow. That's
kind of how I summarize it when I look from a like a practical like recreative part of it myself,
like as artists myself, like just make stuff glow, right? So we have these bars just seemingly
randomly like intersecting our character. But if we break it down before we get to those bars,
those glowing bars, like we have that character that we've already seen before, he's kind of kneeling,
he has high resolution textures, sure. But you know, as a character, he's probably not the most
impressive character example that we've ever seen. You know, we can imagine creating it's a body with
with a muscular anatomical texture on top of it. But my guess is he also knows that. And so he lights
it very interestingly. He leaves more to the imagination. He's not he's not got a key light
above and then a a world environment that's just lighting up the entire texture, there's,
there's a contrast from between the light and shadow that's that's hides enough of the character.
I guess that's my roundabout way of saying that the character is not the most interesting part
of the image. And, and so you have the character, he's kind of kneeling, there's a reflective surface,
there's a light above. But then all of a sudden you throw those bars in. And this thing becomes
something very interesting very quickly. The reflections all of a sudden have these beautiful
gradients to deal with. The glows that he added in treatment, like there's it's like it goes from
purple to a greenish to a red to back to purple, like it seems like there's always a gradient
thing that should have been another bullet point is his use of gradients is so widespread. That's
a very important thing to consider. Even his glowy bits like right here, like there's a gradient,
there's a variety in color among them. And anyway, to me, this is this, I love this image because
it just represents like, throw something glowy in there. The fact that primitive shapes can be
fascinating, right? So we have these randomly random prisms, not prisms, pyramids, right there,
just laying on the ground. You know, let's give it some meaning, let's say that it is, it mimics
this character's like, like shape as he's kneeling and like, you know, holding his temple and stuff.
It does kind of mimic that shape. So maybe there's some meaning there. But also, it just serves to
make the image a little more interesting. It gives something to break up the reflection.
And to give some play off of off of these bars even more. So
and this is another example where less can be more, in my opinion, like there's not that much
happening in the scene. And but still, we get a lot of visual interesting things to to feast our
eyes upon. And so I think this primitive this abstract element just throwing the rays in there,
it makes us think like, like, when it's abstract, we've never seen this before. It's like, oh,
that's different. Like, I'm intrigued already, like, look at it, it's just like intersecting
is his thighs and stuff, it just makes you think way more than, I guess, I think it can make you
think way more than non abstract things, just realism and stuff like that. So let's look at
some more he uses this technique a lot. Well, in general, this whole image is kind of abstract.
And and just think of if we break it down how it can be created, you've got a cylindrical structure
that's creating this whole. And then procedurally, you can create a texture that that does these
jut out spike like things. And so you can generate those spikes procedurally, geometrically, but you
can also create the the rings, right, and various intensities going down the length of the cylinder.
And so, like, that would be very easy to create if you if you are aware of like, well, in blender's
context, like what you can do procedurally, how to enable, you know, displacement and stuff like
that. And so that's really not that difficult. It's very interesting to look at, especially I like
how his his his his rings tend to glow a little more at the ends of the rings. So it has this like
five, what do you call it, fiberglass? Is that what it is? No, optical crap, like fios fiber optics,
there we go, like that kind of appearance to it. And then the coolest thing about the image to me
is how he throws in these fears. Are they are they clear and refractive? I don't know. Or are
they just like chrome spheres? My guess would be chrome, because that would be easier to render.
But he populates them, he scatters them throughout the image, he off centers the composition of the
tube. So it's in the, you know, bottom right corner, bottom right third. And, and it's just
interesting to look at, right, like this could, I think to me, this is one of the ones that clicked
with me. After I broke it down, like, yeah, this can absolutely be done in that amount of time.
And yay, yay for us, like we can learn from him. And he's so learned from his, his workflow. So
that's another example of abstract element. This one to me is another example of just throwing
something in the scene that glows. The whole surrounding scene is actually quite detailed,
the rock quality, both geometrically shading texture wise, like all of it beautiful.
I would guess that he did not, he did not sculpt this or create or model it within the time frame.
It's probably part of his library, just given how detailed it is. And so you throw that in there,
you create the landscape, throw your people, you pose them. And, and what I find myself doing once
he throws, once he puts that column of light down the center is like, I find myself being drawn
into the image the way that the people are drawn to that same column in the image, right? They're
just, they look like zombies being herded into this bizarre column of light. And I find myself
doing that as well. And, and I just would never think of doing that in my own workflow up until
seeing people's work. Like I, I don't know, it would be much more boring if it was just,
if there's nothing to look at that column of light wasn't so, you know, moth to the flame
sort of thing. So I don't know, it's really challenged me to realize, throw like, just experiment,
like, get some practice throwing shapes into your scene, making them glow, because the glowing is
important because it adds shadows to the scene, it adds reflections to the scene. Generally,
very high contrast things, high potential for high contrast, visual interest.
Very powerful thing. I actually really want to start just playing with this create a scene,
throw some shapes in there. And, and I mean, I can't remember the name of this particular image,
but there was a purpose like the column of light represented something. So there was a meaning to
the column of light. It's not quite as simple as just throw shapes in there. But anyway, the next
one. So this one's pretty cool, in my opinion, because it's extreme simplicity, right? Like,
you have the character that at this point we've seen enough characters. Sorry, I've probably
been missing some questions. I'm going to get to those after this. But the simplicity of this image,
the only complexity is the character. Now, did he spend the whole two hours doing the character?
I don't know, I would guess not. He probably has that library. He threw him in there posed it. So
it looks like he's being like abducted by an alien kind of thing. The geometry around it,
super simple, not even reflections involved. But then you have this rainbow light around
surrounding the character. And I mean, you know, it certainly did not take him that long. I mean,
now that we've spent so much time in his artwork, we can we're starting to break it down as to how
this is achievable, given a mastery of these skills. But, but what's cool about this is if
we look up if we just type in Imagine Dragons, like, it became apparently their album cover or
they saw that image because it is part of his everyday's. And they decided they assume they
asked him and hopefully paid him to use that as part of their their imagery like their their album
art. How cool is that, you know, just a couple hours and a powerful image later, you know,
you've got connections like that, you've got success of that caliber. And yeah, this is an
example of how less can be more. You know, maybe I wouldn't look at this image and think how detailed
is that, except for the character, the character does have enough geometric detail that that reads
registers to me as a detailed character. But everything else is just very intentionally simple.
And yeah, I think that's all for the abstract. Maybe there's one more. But okay, yeah, so the
procedural generation idea, like, when you look at this image, hopefully, if you've got experience
with Blender, you know that this can be created fairly simply with with modifiers in Blender,
and, you know, wire modifiers from an icosphere. And, yeah, I don't know, I don't want to break
it down and get too nerdy. But like this kind of shape, we've all probably been there, where we
play around with the modifiers and see what we can get. And even that, you know, I've never
thought of it as like a something to showcase. But like, he was probably playing with that stuff,
too, learning it himself, and realized he could turn into a pretty beautiful image, you know,
like I can absolutely imagine this being hung in someone's home, you know, like that's kind of
how I see all of his images, like these could be printed and hung in someone's home.
That it's that level of artistry and quality visual. But I love how this has just a single
light source, seemingly like in the upper right corner, very stark shadows, huge gradient across
the entire image. Just, you know, using the mastery of his lighting abilities, it's all of
it together creates these things. All right, so finally, the last real category that I'm looking
at with him is unique styles. And so we've talked a little bit about, okay, before I get into that,
let me let me answer some questions. I've kind of neglected the chat. Let's see here.
Question, do you think that it would be would add a nice little punch to his renders if he
sub deed the stuff after apologizing versus bullying and everything? I may be wrong, but
there's a lot of sharp edges that don't reflect light. Yes. I am. So obviously, when you do
subdivision surface, things get a lot harder. Things take a lot more time consuming because you
have to, in a general sense, you have to be more mindful about your topology. But I would guess
and okay, so let me go back. Let me go back for a second and show you it was the repetition, I
believe. Let's go. Okay, this one. So this he maybe he used the bevel modifier, or maybe he
modeled with subdivision surface. But like these this image, particularly all these models do have
like edge, edge illumination, like reflectivity. So it looks like they've been beveled at least.
And in this image, like it registers that way, it seems like maybe modeling is what he was focusing
on primarily. So it's not that he doesn't do it, but he chooses not to. And sharp edges, I think,
given how how often he's making images, he's probably decided that he likes it. It's not an
oversight, but he likes the sharper edges. We are obviously seen here that he doesn't. He can do it.
What am I trying to say? He can do beveled edges in that appearance. But
I don't know, I'm also a very big fan of his if you can't tell. So I don't think he makes mistakes or
oversights, you know, at this point in his in his mastery of these skills, I think everything's
pretty intentional. That would be that's what I at least air on the side of. All right, so let me go
back to the questions. Oh, but you did say like it adds a nice little punch and I would agree, like
I'm a model or primarily like that's that's what I do most of the time. And I like to see the bevels
sharp edges can sometimes, you know, ruin that for me. But and so I agree it could, especially in
that image we just looked at it does add a nice little punch. Can the same techniques be applied
to non abstract art? Yes, I think so. Like this, this is an example, William, of his realism,
he's able to achieve photo realism. This, this reminds me of even a little bit that the poster
ready player one, which this image was around a pretty certain long before that poster came out.
But so maybe this was inspiration for the poster. But this to me, there's no abstract,
there's very little abstract, if any abstract nature to this, it's pure photo realism. But we
see his his ability to use repetition, to use the power of light sources, and quality shading,
you know, the volumetrics up at the top, just makes it feel like a hazy kind of back
alleyway feel to this. So yeah, these techniques could totally be used for
non abstract things. And, and yeah, so this, this last category is going to showcase like,
just a piece of the, the different styles he's able to achieve outside of abstract. But
so first we have realism. And then next, we've got this looks straight out of like 2001, a space
odyssey back to ever, you know, mentioned that he, he seems to be inspired by, by sci fi, you know,
aesthetic. Yeah, absolutely. So, you know, but, but the way he treats this image, the treatment
and the glow of the lights and the, for some reason, the very or the rich saturated orange red of
these, these lines, you know, whatever they are, that's one of those abstract elements, these sinews
kind of running down, down the rays running down this, this tube, something about that feels very
70s to me and the grain in the image as well. So he achieves that, that distinguished aesthetic.
He also has this image, which, you know, to me looks like an 80s album cover, right, like,
there's very little shading information. It's almost like it's very graphical, basically, and
not a lot of shading, lighting, any of that stuff, but it looks more of an exercise in procedural
generation of geometry. But his use of color here is very intentional and very artistic. He's also
mentioned that he's been trying to learn color, like along the way and improve his color skills.
And this to me is a great example of it, but it's different, right? Like who would have thought
these two artists were the same, you know, or the same artist between these three images.
So he's really pushing at his box. He's breaking his conventions, breaking what he maybe is comfortable
with. I know I would not be comfortable if someone told me, hey, can you create this image? I have
to really think about it compared to if someone said, hey, can you create this image? I'd be like,
okay, I know how I'd go about it. And so he's got this 80s album cover style. And this is one of
my favorites, 90s trapper keeper graphical. And if you don't know what I mean by trapper keeper,
let's look that up real quick. These were all the rage when I was in like elementary school.
Well, apparently they're still around as a brand. But what I always think of is this kind of stuff.
Right. So like these primitive 3d renders with with bright neon colored lights and
you just funny shapes. This is another example of it's like they just realized how to render
3d stuff and they were they're trying to do it. Although that might be a painting, actually.
Yeah, it's probably not a 3d render. But so this kind of style, this aesthetic,
I think he achieves here. And he does it several times. Like,
this is a theme that he kind of revisits his style, very unique. And it's not it's not
something to be taken lightly. Like changing a style is changing a lot about how you see stuff.
I mean, if you go if we go look at my portfolio, it looks like the same artist did this, you know,
and, and I don't know, I just really respect the fact that he can break those conventions,
get out of his comfort zone, and create different things. Before I go on to the next,
next styles, let me catch back up on the questions.
From Nathan, in your opinion, does the fact that people use cinema 40 have a strong impact on
the visual style of his art? Can we achieve similar things with cycles? C 40 octane seems
to have a certain look to it. But that was just a service level observation of my own. All right,
so my opinion, my professional opinion is that no, again, I've talked about this earlier, but like,
the tools are not the thing to focus on at all. It's a gut reaction. And I understand that that
like, Oh, his tools must be the reason he's able to do this. But it's definitely I would say,
it's definitely not. It's his, it's his understanding of the tools that enables him to do this.
If he was proficient with cycles, he'd be able to create the same thing, I guarantee that.
Or three studio max and whatever, you know, you name it, like, there was a time when technology
was a little more varied. And, and I remember like using engines, render engines that sucked
compared to render engines that were good, but they're all good now, they're all good. So it's
not about the tools. I personally have used mental ray, vray, Maya software, blender render, cycles,
yeah, for Ray. Are there any others that I I mean, PBR stuff like unity's engine,
sketch fab's engine, like we're at the point in time where all of these do very similarly,
you know, I mean, okay, the PBR is not like comparable to cycles exactly. But
all the traditional offline renderers, they can do the same thing, I've used them and I've done
the same thing in different engines, all that to say, don't focus on the tools, you're missing
out if you think the tools are the reason he's able to do this stuff. I love the glowy stuff,
I agree, man, I, I just get lost in it. And I love it. And that's partly subjective, I'm sure, but
there's some fun glowy stuff. Technically, they're tetrahedrons. Oh, I'm sorry, maybe you're talking
about the pyramid. But thank you for the clarification. Wow, this is PG 13. Yeah, it's about to get
close to rated r towards the end. Let me see if I miss anything else. Okay.
Oh, yeah, a lot of the images you've chosen for today could be on on a Pink Floyd album cover.
That's pretty awesome. Yeah, he's, he's, and obviously, like, he's got that aesthetic, he
does most of his renders in like a taller format, not the widescreen, you know, cinematic format.
So I think he probably, and given his connection with like VJ stuff, like he's got a connection to
music. So he's got to be influenced by that stuff. But yeah, I mean, we've seen Imagine Dragons use
his stuff for their album covers. So definitely got got a an album cover aesthetic to him.
Pink Floyd is a pretty big rock band. So check them out if you haven't heard of them before.
All right, maybe I'm caught up.
Sorry, I kind of let the questions get. Wow, you guys are talking. I love it. Okay, cool.
Excellent. All right, so back to the styles we've got we've covered 90s Trapper Keeper graphical.
Next, we have basically vector art, right? So he's, he's even out of his, he's kind of like
crisscrossing software, you know, you usually do this kind of thing with, what is it, Illustrator or
like Inkscape, if you're on Linux, where it's like gradients and shapes, right? There's very little,
almost no lighting information, we can tell that this big shape is a sphere that's reflecting
the other shapes just because the subtle reflection that we can see in there.
And all this ball too, but besides that, there's very little information. And so,
you know, he's getting into, into the abstract graphical world by using 3D and octane. Like,
I love to see him break out of the conventions of even the software and what they're designed for,
and like making something completely unique. It's, yeah, it's not something to take,
to take lightly to experiment in these different styles, using the same tools.
And then this one to me, like go, we have several abstract categories, at least the way I had to
find it. This to me is like an abstract portrait. It almost looks like a photograph, like this was a
display or a gallery piece in a museum or something. And he took, he took a black and white photo of
it, but like, you know, it's centrally framed. The composition is very central. It's this,
it's this, you know, there's a theme of square shapes all around everything's square and blocky.
But he's just very good at that. And right up his wheelhouse with the sharp, sharp
shadows coming from a key light in the upper left corner, and then procedurally generated
geometry. So in this way, you know, it looks to me like an abstract photo or portrait. He's also got
a painterly, this painterly image. I mean, it registers to me like a painting, like an oil
painting or something. There's no reflectivity. But it's like, the way he achieved that style to
me is just fascinating. But yeah, this again, looks like something that could be hung in a home.
Like I think I could get my wife to buy this and hang in our house at thinking it's a painting and
not a 3d render. So yeah, I mean, at this point, I'm just trying to I'm illustrating how many
different varieties of style he had, he's able to achieve. And I mean, this is just a scratching
the surface, right? Like, we've got 4000 images that we can choose from from him. So this is abstract
painterly, abstract realism. This is one of my favorite things about him that draws me into him,
where all of the technical proficiency of realism is there, right? The reflections
read very, very realistic. The glass refraction reads very realistically. It looks like studio
lighting. So everything about the technical part of this feels real. But then this this weird
glass blown sphere shape is something I've never seen before. And so like it transports me into this
this fake world that feels real, you know, like he's able to do that so well. And and he's just,
you know, it's his mastery of those skills and that understanding of computer graphics and
realistic rendering that frees him up to create these abstract things to put a twist on it and
or a swirl to be literal. So I like this abstract realism, where it's like a shape that I've never
seen before, or it's a it's a light beam that I've never seen before. But everything else around
it feels tangible and feels real. And then finally, abstract character, you know, we've seen his
character work a lot in throughout the images. And you know, as a 3d modelers, we all can probably
look at this and think, Oh, yeah, that's just a head model, right? Like those are dime a dozen,
you can find them anywhere, we can see, you know, the the the what do you call them eyelash geometry
that that kind of serves as these little cards, we can see those in there, we can see the the
mouth cavity inside, you know, the transparent glass. But he takes something simple to me.
And he creates this, this refractive, what's the word dispersed, like dispersion, you know,
refractive dispersion, and makes the transparency have a rainbow color going on, he's, he's broken
up the reflections and refractions with with the grunge texture, we can see evidence of that.
And he's even like put some internal geometry in there, aside from from the eyes and the the
mouth cavity and teeth, there's like some sort of ball back here. It looks like he's almost
duplicated the the scalp and like pushed it into the head. And I mean, the only reason I can think
of is to make it more visually interesting to give more things more geometry for the refraction.
And, and like that's me breaking it down. But what every single one of these images has is when
you take a step back, and you just look at it, your eyes have so much to enjoy, and your mind
does too, like it challenges your perception. And in that way, it keeps me coming back and back
and back, obviously, has led to success for him. And this is just a couple hours, you know, like
it's it's a couple hours every day for 10 years. And he's able to do this kind of art. So really,
really wide variety of style. I really challenge you to look through his library as much as you
can, you'll probably lose a couple hours to doing that, if you're like me. But, and this is again
scratching the surface, like we've only in total looked at what, like 30 images out of 4000. So
pretty crazy. But the takeaways, let me look if I've got any more. Yeah, so chromatic aberration
that might let me see if that was part of the image, there might be a little chromatic aberration,
there's definitely some of his renders that have it. I don't know about this one. That poor guy
looks like he has a brain tumor. Yeah, maybe that maybe the name of the art has something to do with
that. But yeah, okay, so that yeah, you get it Catherine. This is good. It's very, it looks real,
but WTF, what is it, right? Like, that's how I how he draws me in. And it's, it's fascinating,
and it's expanded my, like, appreciation and appetite for like, things that challenge me
visually. So pretty sweet. Here's a question from Omar has people said he knows a bit of coding,
it seems some of his stuff could be mathematically generated. Yeah, I don't know, I don't know that
he's ever, I've seen any evidence that he does, like, code based, you know, 3d stuff and art
generation, geometry generation. But like, it seems very likely given how expansive his tool set is.
Is painterly a software? No, painterly to me is, yeah, as a style, someone else already said it.
It's just like an adjective for what looks like a painting.
Cool. All right, so let's talk about the takeaways. So we've seen a lot of artwork, and a lot of me
probably coming across as like a big fan and in bias. And I don't, I don't, I don't deny that he's
one of my he's probably my top artist and has been for for a while. He's been the first to really
challenge my perception of art in in years. So I'm a big fan of his, we've seen a lot of his art,
talked a lot about what makes it great. And in my opinion, but what what I want you to take away,
what I want you to hopefully take away is the possibilities, the infinite possibilities in
the abstract, okay, at least an appreciation for the abstract. But like what it represents to me,
someone who's kind of grown bored with with the stuff I've like, taught or created up to this
point, you know, character after character after character, cartoon creature after cartoon creature,
shader after shader after shader, all this stuff, you know, that I just repeat and I stick inside
my box, but abstract cracks open this wide world of of new things, new ways to use my abilities,
new ways to use your abilities, how to improve my abilities. And also how to like a new route for
expressing myself. That's one thing that's that's been growing in me, like how to say something
that I want to say with my art, not just recreate a lightsaber, you know, not not just do that kind
of stuff. So there are infinite possibilities in the abstract, I hope you kind of get some of that.
The fact that he is a master people is a master at these technical skills. So his his abstract,
I don't mean to go back to the debate, but where I maybe mistakenly can see abstract art as
as a shirking of the technical, technical skill, in favor of like expression or experimentation,
like he is a master at technical and he's a master at abstract. Oh, but yeah, so the rest of that
quote, like, or the rest of that point, the mass, your ability to master the technical skills is
what will liberate the artist. I think that's what I get out of people is, and I'll talk about more
why in just a minute. But I believe it requires him to be a master in order to convey these abstract
visual pieces, not the other way around. So also he's a there's no better there's no better example
than practice makes perfect. We can see he's been doing it been added for 10 years, insane.
And he said like he's posting this, that he's doing it intentionally to to practice and to get
better and by posting it on the internet. And he's being held accountable for that, you know,
really, really impressive dedication to it. And finally, remember that people is human. So
if in theory, if he can do it, so can you so can I. More realistically, like I'm not really
planning on doing this for 10 years, like not many people will. But if I can just glean a few
nuggets here and there, apply it to my workflow, take that challenge and it takes me further down
the road. Knowing that he's human, that's what can motivate me to do that kind of stuff. Certainly
how my my mind works. Is there anything else? Well, okay, I did want to show you about the
fact that he is human and practice makes perfect to illustrate this, you can go to his website,
look at his every days. And he's posted all of them, I believe. And he's he's got them in archives,
right? So you can go down to year one rounds are years as far as I can tell. So round one,
he was just focusing on drawing round two, he started to learn cinema 4D. Well, okay, so let's
just let's just spend some time in there real quick. Yeah, let's look at some of these.
Some of these images, some of these drawings. Now, he's very expressive. So he's, you know,
he's got, he's got things to say. And they could be a little PG 13 radar, just be aware of that.
But like, from a technical standpoint, like, if I'm honest, it's not like in incredibly
impressive work, right? He looks like a younger artist learning things. So that's his drawings.
If we go back to his first years in cinema 4D, look at some of this stuff. Yes, this should
make you feel so much better. Like this is where we all started, right? Like I didn't really do
stuff like this, he's that's already a little more advanced tectonic turds is the name of this one.
But like, look at this kind of stuff, he's probably figuring out what lens flares are all
about. Like this simple character, like, thank goodness, this artist started out this way,
and he's posted it on the internet, like we can see it explicitly his progression of skill. That's
what I'm trying to show you. If you go through these, you'll see round three, that was another
Cinema 4D, I think seven out of 11 are all 3D based. And, you know, like we can continue to see
his work and his progression, how he gets better and better and better, not only in the quality of
his 3D, but also like, I think what he's expressing, you see a maturity and an advancement of, of like
composition of the voice that I was talking about. So anyway, spend some time there if you don't
believe that he is human, and that you couldn't do this stuff too. It's all documented right here
in his archives. And eventually, you see him start just, he's just excels every single year,
and learns, learns enough to become a just insane, insanely talented artist, gifted artist, sorry,
talented, is a questionable term. Alright, now the last thing I want to end with is, when he
finished his 10 day, his 10 years in a row, he, he posted this, this image like a, like a, a typographic
image to commemorate his 10 years. And I want to end with that, it is a little rated R. So,
out of respect for social constructs and what, what we, at this point in time have decided
as appropriate language, I'm going to censor it, even though that could, I feel like as a disservice
to the actual thing, to his message, but I'm going to censor it. But you remember this, this is,
there's been no better challenge in my opinion than what he says here after 10 years of doing this
stuff. So remember it, read it to yourself, uncensored, exactly how it is, but so I'm going
to read it right now, forget checking Facebook again, forget that picture you just saw on Instagram,
forget worrying about how many people liked your last post, forget the news, forget that person
you really should email back, forget yourself doubt, forget whatever happened yesterday,
forget starting tomorrow, forget, will people like this, forget, will this be good enough,
forget all of your excuses, sit down and do work. That, that should motivate the hell out of you,
okay? And it does me, and I want to leave it with that, that commemorates his 10 years, no
better authority to say that in him. No one who has documented a harder worker than Beeple,
than Mike Beeple, Winkleman, wow, I almost forgot his name, how embarrassing. So yeah,
that is Beeple, that is an artist study, I hope you got some things out of that, and hope you
liked it. So that's going to be all for today, I don't see any other questions. I feel one with
that quote, that is amazing. So yeah, if there is any other questions from Glenn Johnson, do you
have any of your own artwork inspired by Beeple Kent? Okay, there's one image, let me see if I
can find it. It's really bad though, like I mean, it's hardly an inspiration, let me see, let me see
where it's at. Um, is it right here? It was a, no, no, no, I'm sorry, it was not this course, it was
Art of Sculpting. Sorry, I'm almost there, this one. So this feature image right here,
um, all it did, I think I was, I just seen Beeple's work and his use of like harsh pink lighting,
basically harsh saturated lighting I've always shied away from. So when I was playing with
the new feature image, I took that from him, you know, I was inspired by that. That's it,
right? So that's not much at all, but I really do want to, at some point, do a stream where I try
to mimic his workflows, I try to apply what I feel like I've learned from analyzing his art,
and try to create some abstract image within like a two hour timeframe. So I do want to do that.
We'll see when it actually happens, but anyway. Yeah, so that is going to be the stream for today.
What's up next for you Kent? Let's see, this month I'm focusing on doing, like,
uh, I'm doing a stream each week and next week is going to be a, what is it, a stream about
freelancing. We're going to have a discussion with Lampell and Wayne Dixon about freelancing
tips and sharing about our experience freelancing and what we've learned about it. We're going to do
a couple of other things that I'm going to publish really soon. I've got it all planned,
I just need to publish it officially to our calendar. But um, yeah, that's what I'm working
on. I'm trying to figure out what class to do next, and there's a lot of good, um, exciting
ideas for that kind of stuff. But I've kept you long enough about an hour and 40 minutes. So I'm
going to, I'm going to sign off for today. I'm glad to hear that someone thought it was amazing,
inspiring, um, about people and maybe you didn't know about him before. He really is, um, yeah,
he's really incredible, so worthy to follow. It's just search for him if you want to, he's easy to
find and you'll, it's like endless inspiration. So thank you guys for being here today. Um, and I
will see you next week. So